Add Nomic embeddings (#594)
qdrant/landing_page: qdrant-landing/content/documentation/embeddings/nomic.md

---
title: "Nomic"
weight: 1100
---

# Nomic

> The `nomic-embed-text-v1` model is an [open source](https://github.com/nomic-ai/contrastors) 8192 context length text encoder.

Reviewer: While we like open source, the link is to the Nomic contrastor. If I understand correctly:

```suggestion
The `nomic-embed-text-v1` model is an open source [8192 context length]((https://github.com/nomic-ai/contrastors)) text encoder.
```

> The `nomic-embed-text-v1` model is an open source [8192 context length](https://github.com/nomic-ai/contrastors)) text encoder.

Author: ```suggestion
The `nomic-embed-text-v1` model is an open source [8192 context length](https://github.com/nomic-ai/contrastors) text encoder.
```

> The `nomic-embed-text-v1` model is an open source [8192 context length]((https://github.com/nomic-ai/contrastors)) text encoder.

Author: ```suggestion
The `nomic-embed-text-v1` model is an open source [8192 context length](https://github.com/nomic-ai/contrastors)) text encoder.
```

> It is available on [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1), but the easiest way to use it is 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can access Nomic Embeddings through the [official Nomic inference API](https://docs.nomic.ai/reference/endpoints/nomic-embed-text) or download the model weights on the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1).
```

> It is available on [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1), but the easiest way to use it is 
> through the [Nomic Text Embeddings](https://docs.nomic.ai/reference/endpoints/nomic-embed-text), either by using the official
> Python client or by sending HTTP requests directly.

Reviewer: Unclear: what's the "official" Python client? (I'm guessing we should drop the word)

```suggestion
While you can find it on the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1), 
you may have more success through the [Nomic Text Embeddings](https://docs.nomic.ai/reference/endpoints/nomic-embed-text).
Once installed, you can configure it with the official Python client or through direct HTTP requests.
```

Reviewer 2: Added a suggestion above on wording to make it more concise.

> Nomic embeddings might be used directly in the Qdrant client's calls. Please note there is a difference in the way the embeddings
> are obtained for the documents and queries. The `task_type` parameter defines what kind of embeddings you want to obtain.
> For the documents, it should be set to `search_document`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Nomic embeddings directly in Qdrant client calls. There is a difference in the way the embeddings
are obtained for documents and queries. The `task_type` parameter defines the embeddings that you get.
For documents, set the `task_type` to `search_document`:
```

```python
from qdrant_client import QdrantClient, models
from nomic import embed

output = embed.text(

>     texts=["The best vector database"],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    texts=["Qdrant is the best vector database!"],
```

    model="nomic-embed-text-v1",
    task_type="search_document",
)

qdrant_client = QdrantClient()
qdrant_client.upsert(
    collection_name="my-collection",
    points=models.Batch(
        ids=[1, 2],
        vectors=output["embeddings"],
    ),
)
```

> While querying the collection, the `task_type` should be set to `search_query`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To query the collection, set the `task_type` to `search_query`:
```

```python
output = embed.text(

>     texts=["The best vector database"],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    texts=["What is the best vector database?"],
```

    model="nomic-embed-text-v1",
    task_type="search_query",
)

qdrant_client.search(
    collection_name="my-collection",
    query=output["embeddings"][0],
)
```

> Please refer to the [Nomic documentation](https://docs.nomic.ai/reference/endpoints/nomic-embed-text) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the Nomic documentation on [Text embeddings](https://docs.nomic.ai/reference/endpoints/nomic-embed-text).
```
